[Music]
hi everyone and welcome to a new episode
of demystifying digital with russ and
sam russ how you doing dude
good thanks sam how are you not bad at
all my friends so i believe today we're
going to be talking about web
development spot on um
a little while back we spoke about we've
done lots around websites
but we spoke about websites that are web
designers first web developers
uh architects and builders so we're
moving away from the construction
industry today and i'm going to take you
aren't you lucky i'm taking you to her
fine dining restaurant
cool you ready sounds good all right
so basically think about a fine dining
restaurant you've got
the chefs creating the meals okay they
use ingredients
to create meals let's call them back end
developers
right so the ingredients that they use
to create the meals they get from a
database
then they develop it in the back end
then what needs to happen for the
customer to actually see
the food that's been prepared a waiter
comes out but it's a fine dining
restaurant so think about the waiter
the chef has put the food down the
waiter then sees the plate and goes okay
cool i'll just tidy that up and make
this look nice and presentable and i'm
going to walk it out
the sand and we're going to present this
meal to
him and i'm going to explain a bit about
to you about it so i'm going to say okay
well this
you know this food's from here we've
used this type of x
you know berries or whatever it happens
to be and they present it beautifully
for you to end
so front end developer that's the
presentation part
backend developer is the chef has
created it
database is the ingredients that the
back end developers use to create
the meal that is web development 101
what do you think
that's good man i like the way you've
simplified it i've never really thought
of that before
and uh food certainly appeals to me as
someone who eats non-stop
um but no that's that's good like like
just like you say websites the back end
needs to talk to the front end
and the front-end designers tend to be
the guys that are girls that
keep the website looking pretty looking
good making sure people can easily
interact with it they can navigate the
website well
and then the back-end developers tend to
make sure everything functions well
and they're working together to make
sure that back-end can talk to the
front-end about the features and
functionality and send messages to the
back end and just communicate well so
yeah i love it i like it spot on and i
wanted to make it fine dining so that
the front end
the waiter is actually communicating
presenting like they want to take too
much away
they both do a really important job so
front end back end
chefs front of our staff
tasty analogy sam thank you